Past literature has examined the causes of vaccine hesitancy amongst African Americans. Multiple causes of vaccination reluctance were found like attitudes towards law enforcement, trust in the healthcare system, susceptibility to misinformation, socioeconomic and accessibility factors, perceived discrimination, perceived risk, trust in the government, and political affiliation [1,7]. Another study in 2021 established that the attitudes towards the police are a driving force of vaccine hesitancy amongst African Americans, driven by historical injustices in public health policing, such as a forced-at-gunpoint vaccination campaign directed towards African Americans in Middlesboro, Kentucky in 1898 [8]. We further investigated the 2021 study by controlling for the various covariates found in the literature, particularly government trust. Using data from the 2020 and the 2016 American National Election Survey, as well as ZIP-code level data from 2020-2021 in NYC on arrests, vaccine rates, accessibility, and socioeconomic factors, we sampled from African American respondents in the ANES survey as well as African American-majority ZIP codes in New York City to investigate whether a causal relationship exists between police attitude and vaccine hesitancy inAfrican American community. 
We spread our experiment across three quasi-studies - our first study is posttest-only using ANES data, to control for numerous confounders that arose in 2020. Our treatment group is respondents that had better attitudes towards police in 2020, our control group is respondents that had worse attitudes towards the police in 2020. The other study uses 2016 ANES data as a pretest, where the treatment and control group is split by attitudes towards the police in 2020. The last study uses ZIP code-level data from NYC, splitting treatment and control by the amount of arrests per capita from May 2021 to October 2021, with COVID-19 vaccine dates before and after this timeframe as our pretest and posttest outcome variables.
We found that police attitudes are controlling with vaccine hesitancy amongst African Americans when controlling for other factors identified in the literature, but police attitudes only influence intention to vaccinate, especially attitudes towards vaccine mandates, while actual vaccine uptake may be associated with other factors such as accessibility, perceived discrimination, and susceptibility to misinformation. The influence that police attitudes have on attitudes towards vaccine mandates are indicative of mistrust in the government driven by interactions with police. It is important to note that our study has limitations that hinder the robustness of our findings - further research should combat these limitations. We give recommendations to decision makers and researchers on how to avoid these limitations in further research.
